But first Silver Taps and then on, did you and your Walton Hall buddies respect the tradition and take it seriously when you got back to the dorm?
You all didn't turn your lights on and start partying?
No.
After that, something, I mean we were respecting those people that had just passed away.
We would go back and be solemn for a while.
about it for a while and then go back to regular, like it was a regular day.
Then Bonfire.
Describe being a freshman in 97 and your part of Bonfire.
That is a very interesting thing, because like I've been talking to my friends, I've been part of both sides of Bonfire.
That freshman year, the first part of it, I didn't do anything.
They would come up to our room and I was knocking and I had let it go until the last load because other hulls have cut so we'd load.
So I decided to go out there and see what it was all about.
I remember going out there and it was a great experience.
It was just everybody loading trucks and doing this and that.
Everybody was going around and I went out there and I saw them do the dorm log and I was like, wow, this is pretty nice.
I think I've missed out.
So after that I went to perimeter pole, center pole, every other thing when they were building bonfire.
And I really got into it.
That freshman year?
That freshman year.
So I got really into it.
About how many weeks were you?
Part of it?
I'd say about four or five.
Okay.
And where, how far from the campus was the cut area?
Do you remember?
That I really don't remember.
I don't remember where it was.
What time of day would you go out to join in?
Well, that last load, it was in the morning, because it was one of the mornings.
But the other ones, during the afternoon, weekends in the afternoon or something like that.
But that was after, that's when I decided the next year that I was going to be a big part of it.
All right.
But that first year, did you see things happening that, did you see some students doing anything they shouldn't have been doing?
Just the usual, like everybody knows about.
I was drinking all the time.
What were they drinking, beer or whiskey or what?
I guess.
I can't remember.
Were some of them over-drinking?
Oh, yeah.
They were?
Yeah.
Okay.
Everybody saw that.
It's not a big deal.
Did you or anybody else that you knew well get hurt?
No.
No accident?
Not that year.
Okay.
And you all were loading.
Then as Bonfire then is held, what were your feelings as you attended Bonfire?
It was just something spectacular.
It was just something that, I mean it was a big fire.
I remember it was really hot.
I can't remember, because you're so close to the fire.
Even though you're kind of away, you're still there and it's so hot.
And then the yells going on over there and so many, just so many people there.
Was there, on bonfire, either in the physical work to get it prepared and or the bonfire itself, were all the Aggies together or did it matter that you were a civilian student?
That first year I didn't really see it.
It was until later on.
When you're building it, you're part of the Aggie family.
Of course, there's always the Walton is better than Moses and Walton is better than 17 and Squadron or whatever like that.
But it also means y'all are trying to work or outwork them.
Yeah, always, because you're going to want to be the best hall out there.
You're the best bonfire hall.
And you want to be the best at anything, just like anything else.
But at the end, you're all working to build this one thing for A&M.
Which, in my opinion, it's A&M first, and then anything else you're a part of.
It's A&M, and then Walton, and then whatever other organizations.
It's never anything, it's never above A&M.
That's good.
Okay, you go home Thanksgiving and Christmas.
How were you, were you feeling more positive about A&M as that first semester goes on?
I would go home and all I would talk about was A&M and traditions.
I'd see other Longhorns and all I did was fight.
Not physically fight, but we're, it was just, we're better than you and you have nothing against us.
And all I would talk about is traditions and what we would do and what they were, all the Wong traditions.
That freshman year, I came in and I shaved my head.
I put an I. I had a letterhead, which was a big I. I ran around this campus in my underwear.
We did the underwear run.
And I had done all those things at Bonfire.
And what was the I for?
We spelled out, I can't remember exactly what we spelled out, but I remember I was part of the word Bonfire.
We had a bunch of people with a B and O and so on and so on.
And I remember telling him all that.
And I had all these pictures to show him.
And all I can remember, everybody would always talk about parties.
So I really don't think that other schools have our traditions and our unity.
They're more like party schools.
They don't have what we have here, where we can just go around.
And the more I see it now, the freshmen that are coming in from my hometown, they go back and they do the same thing.
Because I heard this one guy the other day talking about traditions, and I was like, that's me a few years ago.
I don't do it now.
I mean I've been hearing it that long that you kind of get away from it for a while, but those first two, three years, all I did was talk about A&M.
All right.
Then as the spring semester goes on, your grades are going up, were you working harder academically in the spring?
Yeah.
Because by that time I was learning the ropes and learning A&M and what you needed to do
improve all right now and you made those decisions no nobody gave you a lecture no advisor you decide that on your own see the best thing about my parents is they told me and they keep telling me it's all you you know it's your life how did you and your parents communicate did you write or no phone calls okay a lot of phone calls they would call me a lot because i'm assuming you are you didn't have email going at that point
I started mine.
They don't.
They didn't.
Okay.
When did you get a computer in your room?
Either my junior or senior year.
Oh, okay.
And that was my roommate's, because he got his.
I would use all my friends, because everybody on us had some.
I was always using theirs, or the labs.
Now in Walton Hall, did you all ever play pranks on each other in their room?
Did you all do anything to anybody else's room?
To ourselves, not that much.
But to other halls we'd go and we had back then the balloon launchers, and of course back then it was more like groding other people.
We'd go over and knock on their doors and they'd come out and we'd just groat them.
But to ourselves, I really don't remember a lot of the pranks that we did to ourselves.
Were there drown outs?
No.
Did you all do any kind of stuff in the dining hall?
It's just the usual, like, with the salt, you take out the top and throw stuff at other halls.
It was always against other halls.
We were, we had this model where we don't do stuff to ourselves.
It's always bring down other halls.
Alright, then you, your spring semester grades are better.
What'd you do then in the summer after your freshman year?
I remember I went home.
I had to retake that English class.
And I only took one class and I started working back home.
You took that at junior college?
Yes sir.
Okay.
You had a job doing what?
I was working in a copy, kind of a copy corner thing.
And that was pretty fun.
I would get bored but it was fun.
So all we did was copies and stuff with copy machines.
It was a good summer.
It wasn't as fun as I'd hoped it was.
Because I think every freshman wants to go home that first summer and wants to be with his friends and everything.
So after that, you start losing in touch with all your friends and people do different things.
And when you, that first summer, you told everybody what a great place A&M was.
Yeah.
Did you ever think about transferring to some other school?
No.
Okay.
The only fear that I had was that I would never be good enough and that I would have to leave A&M and go back home and say I failed.
All right, and engineering was your goal and you said where the idea originated and your dream is to be what?
In engineering?
Just an electrical engineer.
You want to work for a corporation?
It really doesn't matter.
My biggest goal was just to become an electrical engineer.
You come back in the fall, same roommate, same room?
Same room, same roommate.
Did you dress up the room a little more, bring any more furniture?
What we did that year, we got a loft.
The second semester of my freshman year, that's when I brought the TV, the VCR.
Like I said, that's it.
We need all this stuff here.
We built a loft.
We had couches.
It was a lot better than the first semester.
Because the first semester, we just had the two beds next to each other.
And we put that loft.
We had the loft, the couch, TV, VCR.
Have dormitory students ever had to worry about theft?
Anybody ever steal anything from anybody's room?
Yeah, I've heard here and there.
But in A&M, I mean in Walton, our community, your doors are always open.
Leave your doors open.
You shouldn't steal.
The thing was, they said, if we find somebody stealing, we're going to kick your ass.
Simple as that.
And about how many people live in Walton?
I would say 300 and...
Between 3 and 340.
Okay.
And is it a variety of majors?
Yeah.
It's every major there.
And geographically, where are they from?
All over as well.
I know there's people there that came from California and New York, all over Texas.
A lot of people go in there not wanting to live there.
They're kind of forced into living, were forced into living in Walton.
But once they live there, they don't want to leave.
Any international students?
Yeah.
From?
India, Asia, I know there's some from Asia, South America definitely.
Still, are there still nicknames?
Oh yeah.
Those nicknames will never leave.
What are some of the, you don't need to tell me the last name, what are some of the goofiest nicknames that you remember?
Gabor.
This one guy, we used to call him woman, scrotum, comrade.
Are there any that are complimentary?
No.
Do some of them refer to the person's physical size?
Well, Rocky kind of had that because he was big and he would get into fights.
There's one ghillie.
No fats?
No skinny?
There were fats, but they say P-H-A-T, fat.
They really don't go with it.
And you use those nicknames in the dormitory?
Yeah, all the time.
They sometimes even get so much into it that they introduce themselves by their nicknames.
Even though it's really a bad nickname or whatever, they'll still be like, hi, my name is.
Would they do that elsewhere on the campus?
Yeah.
They would use that?
Hold on just a second.
Then that fall, your grades continued to improve.
Any special courses you had in your sophomore year?
No, I was still with the weed out classes, the physics, English, I mean chemistry, the engineering chemistry, the calculus, engineering 111 and 211, 212, all those classes.
As you now look back on it, which ones for you were the key classes?
I'd say definitely calculus and physics, because I still use all that stuff now.
Some of those I just got by barely, because I didn't like them at all.
You're saying barely.
A C?
Like a C. Scraping through very barely.
Which did you do best?
I would say the classes that I've done, you mean about between physics and math?
Math, the calculus.
The classes that I really liked were the histories and the poli-sci, because I like history a lot.
Did you have some teachers you now are grateful to?
Yes.
Amy Austin.
Amy Austin, A-U-S-T-I-N?
Yes.
She was in math.
She wasn't a doctor because she hadn't gotten it yet.
She was just a teacher.
She was more than a TA.
She was teaching the class and she was one of those people that taught really well.
So I had seen a lot of other teachers or professors for the physics that I would wonder why would they even let them teach.
They were just so bad at it.
They had averages so low that you would wonder why would they even want you to get those averages.
Why not make the class easier or actually be able to teach?
But she could teach.
I liked the way she taught and she helped me out a bit.
Who else?
And you got the grades you deserved.
Normally they did not grade on the curve.
And you're going to class more regularly, studying harder?
Studying harder.
I still go to class.
Still in doing your studying in the dorm?
Yeah, dorm and a lot of it here in the library.
Where in Evans was the best place for you to study?
Fifth floor.
Fifth floor where?
I would always go, there was only one side of it on the fifth floor.
That's where I always go.
Did you have a kind of a special chair that you... Not a special chair, but kind of always try to sit in the same kind of general area or general table.
So if somebody needed to find you they... Then, yeah.
Now, did you use a little calculator?
What kind of...
I remember I had to buy an 83, TI-83, and it became really helpful.
Normally, about how much free spending money did you have?
It would depend because I really don't spend a lot of money.
I save a lot of it, and I really don't need stuff.
I'm not a person that likes to go out shopping.
I've only gone to the mall, to this mall here, about three times since I've been here in five years.
Unless I really need something.
My parents send a lot of stuff.
Either somebody goes over there and brings it to me or... You're talking about clothing or food or what?
Food.
Clothing, what I have, I've had it for a while.
And I just feel comfortable.
I don't need to buy new stuff.
This year I had to buy more dress-up clothes because of RHA.
So I had to represent it at all the meetings.
Where did you and your buddies go to have a good time?
A lot of it was in the home, with my friends, there in the dorm.
Or parties that the dorm would throw at different locations off campus.
Some clubs, we'd go to some clubs.
There was this one Tejano club here.
Where?
Down in Bryan.
It was called Tejano Ranch.
We'd go there a few times.
Just anywhere.
So much stuff to do some of those weekends.
Did you encounter many people using drugs?
No.
I don't think I've ever seen anybody use an illegal drug.
A lot of drinking, yeah of course.
And by and large what were people drinking?
It was funny because I would see a lot of natural light in the dorm.
The cheapest beer you can find.
Where did they keep it?
In the fridge or stuff like that.
Is that according to the rules or are they supposed not to have it?
I don't think back then you were supposed to have it.
If the two people living in the room are both 21, they can have it there.
But if one of them's not, then you can't have it.
And I remember in some parties, even in the dorm, they used to have kegs, which was really not allowed.
One of my friends got kicked out of campus for having a keg in his room.
They caught him.
You mentioned beer.
Did you see much whiskey being consumed?
I saw a lot of beam and a lot of Everclear, just everything.
Wine, gin, vodka?
Everything.
Tequila?
Is that right?
Definitely.
Let's see, did you and your buddies go to the MSC much?
No.
Oh actually that first two years we would go to play pool.
Down at the 104.
Many things in Rudder Center?
Did you go to concerts, entertainments?
No.
Let's see, did you go to basketball games?
One.
In the first two years I went to one.
All right, so in athletics you went to almost every home football game.
What other athletic events?
A few volleyball games.
We would like to go and see the girls.
Baseball?
No.
Oh yeah.
At least three games per year.
I thought they were fun.
They always have them at all times.
Did you and any buddies hit the road and go to the big cities, Houston, Dallas, Austin?
Austin.
My roommate and I.
How often?
Month to month, maybe.
Because he had family there.
Did you spend the night over there?
Yeah.
And where would you all go?
Sixth Street?
We went to Sixth Street maybe a few times, but that wasn't our big thing.
We'd go more to, there was more Tejano, more Spanish stuff.
Did you wear your Aggie stuff when you went?
Yeah, I remember that.
I would go to places and I would try to wear, I mean we'd try to dress up, but I would wear anything that I had Aggies with.
And I didn't have my ring yet.
I remember the first year I bought a wallet with the A&M sign, and I had that with me all the time and just anything I could all the time.
Did they tease you over there?
Not so much because we had spent so much time with my roommate's sister.
But whenever we went out, people just looked at us, but it was just not a big deal.
All right, and your pride in being an Aggie is growing.
By the time you were a sophomore?
Yeah.
Why?
The traditions and the fact that I was learning more and more about the school.
And by the time I was a sophomore, I went to every load except one.
So by then, I was big into bonfire.
From the previous year that I said I was going to do it, I said do it.
I earned my load shirt.
Now as a sophomore, did you participate in the loading just as the freshmen did?
Yes.
And every load, how often would that be?
Every weekend.
For about four or five weeks, maybe six weeks.
We'd go, if there was a home game, we'd only go Sundays.
If there was a away game, we'd go Saturday and Sunday mornings.
So you and your buddies would go out to the load area and you would load?
and you would stay out there.
What did you all eat or drink while you were out there?
Sabisa would provide us with the meals.
There would always be sandwiches, chips, an apple, orange juice.
During lunch, that's what we would eat.
Our hands were always dirty.
The water we would drink was black.
But we had a great time.
It was some fun times.
Now, were there any coeds out there at all?
Yeah.
What were they doing?
If they were the water girls, they would just be there serving water.
OK. At Lodeside, there was only two or three girls.
They were the ones that were serving water.
Were they in the Corps, or were they civilians?
They were civilians.
The other halls had, they were cutting over there, and they had girls.
But that was written in a lot.
Now, did you all have women living in Walton?
No.
Y'all were all men.
Yeah.
How were those girls that were out there pouring the water, how were they treated?
Because they were giving us the water, they were treated well.
Until they got towards lunch, we would throw them in the puddle of water and grow them.
And after that, they would all pick them up and just, not throw them around, but just play with them for a while.
But they were treated well because they did bring us water and we would always be tired.
And while you were out there in the load area, did anybody in authority ever come by to check and see how things were being done and that everything was in order?
In all three years that I can remember, maybe once or twice or three times, but not really.
And how far would y'all carry a log?
10, 15 feet.
That's all?
Yeah.
The trucks were there and the logs would be dragged there and we'd just pick them up and then just haul them over.
So you literally, just to pick them up and load them, it wasn't to drag them over.
No.
The tractors dragged them over.
Tractors dragged them over.
We would pick them up and then haul it over the truck.
And they had already been cut and trimmed and topped.
Let's see.
One of the questions I normally ask, but you wouldn't have any of this, I can't think of any world event or national event during until last September where you would know exactly where you were when you heard the news that.
The only thing I can think of is when Bonfire actually fell.
Yeah, yeah, we're going to get to that, we're going to get to that one later.
Okay.
You, are you, your sophomore year you're not involved in any of the campus organizations yet?
Actually, by that time I had started getting into, involved, getting involved in a lot of stuff.
That year I was intramural chair for Walton.
I was a reporter for an organization called MANRS, which is Minorities in Agricultural, Natural Resources and Related Sciences.
And I was getting involved in Mexican Student Association.
Mexican Student Association?
MSA.
MSA, okay, all right.
Not Mexican American?
No, Mexican Student Association.
Did that include both Mexicanos and Tejanos?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
And what, describe what that organization was trying to do and what your role was.
MSA, I was really getting into it.
It was mostly just getting together, have a few parties, getting Mexican culture out.
Manners was the other one that was trying to recruit more minorities.
And that one I got a little bit more into, and the reason why I got into it was because my roommate one day said, he was in it, and he said, hey, let's go over.
They're having elections.
And I just went over that day.
They had elections, and I raised my hand for reporter, and I got it.
And you turned in, in your duties as reporter, you turned in information to whom?
To the general people attending the meetings.
Like I would get information and report what had gone on.
You were reporting to them, not for them.
Yeah.
And then in Walton I was intramural chair.
And that was a lot of work because I got the all-intramural champ that year, the plaque, for Walton.
And I would go up and down getting people to go play sports, and I would sign them for everything.
And that was a lot of fun.
That was a lot of work.
Now, in intramurals, did you all compete with corps units as well as civilian dogs?
All of them.
Okay.
And what were the primary sports?
Football, soccer, baseball, and basketball.
And then we had squash and some other sports that I had never thought, heard of, but people wanted to play them, so we would sign them up, tennis and baseball.
Let me turn it off.
And so you helped with intramurals and you enjoyed that.
Yeah it was a lot of work but fun.
Any problems, any difficulties?
With that, sometimes people would sign up but they didn't want to play.
So there I am going
through ramp to ramp trying to get players.
Sometimes we would have to forfeit and pay dues or pay late fees, but I would go a lot of times going up and down the ramps trying to get players to go out.
That was the only big difficulty.
And meanwhile your grades are going up, and so you finish your sophomore year, go home, what did you do that summer?
Work again?
I worked.
at the same place, I think.
And then I took another class.
I took History 106 in community college.
And that was so easy.
The thing that I remember most about the summer is meeting this one girl that went to Baylor.
And I remember meeting her.
She would sit in front of me and one day she turned around and I started talking to her.
And I asked her where she was from, and she said she'd go to Baylor.
And I started laughing.
Why?
I just don't remember.
So she hated me.
But after a while, we started becoming good friends.
We started going out.
And just a lot of stuff happened with her.
And I think that was the highlight of that summer.
And there was just problems here and there, and it was just fun.
And then I came back again.
All right.
During, do you have a steady girlfriend now?
No.
All right.
Where did you and your buddies get dates?
How did you get dates?
We had friends that were here, so we'd go out with them.
just meeting people here from some of the halls like Neely and all that.
My freshman year, I forgot to say, that was a very good story that I met this one girl.
And that was the first girl that I met here.
And we just hit it off.
But I was kind of going out with a girl back home that
I had never been, I had never gone steady with her, but we were kind of close.
And it was just a very interesting story with that one too.
It ended up kind of bad because the first semester she left, or actually the first year, she didn't make it back.
And I hadn't talked to her since, but it was a pretty good story.
As far as you could tell, how were women during your years here, how have women
student, female students, been treated?
They're a lot different here than they would be at home.
And a general thing that I see, college girls are a lot different, but Caucasian girls are a lot different than Hispanic girls.
Yeah.
Well I didn't have a lot of these Caucasian girls back home so I didn't.
All right.
How?
They are just more open.
Their thoughts are just much more different.
Oh, all right.
That's not the way they're being treated though.
Oh treated.
Oh I didn't hear that.
Are Aggie coeds treated fairly?
Sometimes, depends on the girls too, depends on how much they can take and how much they let you do.
But some of them would just be, they let themselves be treated really badly.
I would hear a lot of bad stuff, and what would always surprise me was that they would always come back.
They would be treated kind of bad, next day they were still back.
And I would be thinking, if you don't like to be treated like that, why do you keep coming back?
And treated bad, what would be some?
For example, I remember this one time,
There was this one girl, and they would always call her a slut and a bitch and all these things, and treat her really bad in front of everybody else, but she'd be there the next day.
If it were somebody like me, I'd be like, ha ha, I'll see you guys later.
But no, they would keep coming back.
Some people just like to be treated bad, I guess.
All right.
Now, those were insulting words to her, but also they were insulting words used
to some of the guys too.
Yeah.
It was always the bad words like gay and all those things.
Some of those guys even came back as well.
Were the Hispanic women in this way, were Hispanic women treated any differently from the Anglo women?
It was a lot different because I really didn't get to see a lot of Hispanic women around our groups.
I mean granted that there are not a lot of Hispanic people around the halls.
Did, would there have been any, would there have been any problem if you had had some dates with an Anglo co-ed here?
No, not at all.
I never.
And did you and your Hispanic buddies, did you all think that a gringo should not date a Tejano?
No, we never.
It depends on the people, but I really,
A lot of us didn't see rays or color or anything like that.
We saw a bunch of Aggies and that was kind of it.
Of course, you always have to remember, and this was more jokefully, being called the wetback and all that other stuff.
But we'd always make fun of each other.
Somebody would call me that and I would just find a name and
Now back on.
I'd like to ask a quick question.
Sure.
Because I just heard you say something right now.
Where were you born?
In Dallas County, a little town named Garland.